okay hey hello can we have a note-taker
that isn't Jacob volunteer today with
the hand in the air
alex is going to be the note-taker today
thank you
cool okay so hello and welcome to the
Jas core dev team weekly sync it's a new
name it's the same old awesome it's got
a new name so that's cool um we've got a
note-taker that's good I remember that
for once shall we do a round of updates
like we normally do yes good okay from
me I have whatever done this week
investigated in race yes so okay
you might have noticed that our JSI PFS
api tests have been failing on Windows
for about a month or two I've sort of
been investigating this off and on for
awhile and I've come to the conclusion
that I should just open an issue won't
go out FS
it looks as though there was a
regression as far as I can tell between
4.13 and for point
well subsequent releases where Windows
ipfs knows they are just not finding
each other on the network and they used
to and so are tests that require nodes
to be connected to each other and get
things from each other and they are the
ones that are failing and it's only
happening on Windows and it's only
chairside PFS api because that's the one
that talks to go ipfx so if you're
wondering why that was that that was
happening
then that's that's why I rip in the PR
you're welcome to he'll never look
[Music]
yeah that was that's been interesting to
to track down and also I'm not a native
Windows user so it's been fun um I've
we're done so I did it oh yeah right so
the live p2p connection manager stuff
got merged in it's not yet been released
I've added a PR to expose that
configuration so that when chase ipfs
gets released next people can start
using the connection manager so Jeff's
ipfs API there is a fix for getting a
block that has no data I've just
released a new version yes I profess API
to fix that I added tests and found that
that was also a problem in chess ipfs so
I've also created a PR to J's I profess
to fix this issues with getting a block
with no content in it the pin the pin
stuff got merged in hooray yes
the problem that David has noticed was
that we had there were some tests that
were running in JSI PFS well there are
some tested yes I confess but they
weren't running they weren't being
required so it all was not lost because
the interface like the first core tests
were still wearing one but the one said
that had been written and were in JSI
PFS mysteriously were never being run so
david open the PRT enable those and I
tweaked to fix it and most it and no and
we'll never know
oops anyway and I'm not I'm not blocked
on anything
I've got a few next up i I've got a few
things to do on the PR for modular
interface IVFs core tests it looks as
though everyone's kind of happy with
that so that's great thank you for
commenting if you did reviewing whatever
I think so the main easy to do on that
is david has requested that when we skip
tests there being some sort of
description printed to the console
for wires being skipped and the thing
that's quite sensible so I'm gonna see
what I can do to to enable that and then
what else so it's 0 30 is the thing I'm
sort of focused on connection manager
got merged it just needs a liberal
version um David requested that we also
try and get in the p2p contact is PR for
updating the wider config works for the
p2p so I've got to have a look and maybe
get back in um
and then again for a second we running I
might get around to reviewing imagine me
and the fester for the next release that
is me does anyone have any questions on
that ok that's cool um who is who's next
err so you're up yes so I was working on
the crafting stuff in a so the exciting
thing is that I kind of get it working
that I can get one one file like with
one call getting a full file without any
back and forth between the little peers
and it was a quick heck so it's not that
useful but at least I get an idea so now
let's talk about I don't know like 10x
faster so not that much and socially the
graph sync won't make things faster
because we have lots of other brunettes
in JSF FS anyway it gave me a good
understanding of like how all the cool
stream stuff anything so it was worth
the effort and I finally think I know
what grafting is the quick summary is
what I would want to concentrate next
quarter on is it's not about reversing
graphs is not about making things fast
it's about you can send one C ad with
some meta information and it will return
several blocks and that's the difference
between bit swap using bits puppies
city requests one blog getting it in one
book bag so the difference is between
sending one block with some meta
information getting several blocks back
this is what I will concentrate on it's
someone super straightforward but it
isn't yes so that's the core of crafting
I think and yes and the next thing I
will do is writing this down and also
playing a round a bit with really p2p to
see how well it will work with graphs
and stuff I will work on and another
exciting thing is that you Richard
Snyder is working on the IP of the
format changes that I did so the spec
was updated quite heavily but nothing of
it was implemented and Richard now works
on the implementation so that's pretty
cool
yes that's all any questions all right
well thank you okay whoever got next
next Hugo
hi guys so I continued with my big files
up here
I try to I implemented new data store
using index DB but not going through the
whole level device stuff it was a simple
simple hag makes things a little bit
faster at least when we have all the
blocks already in the in the browser
because when we are getting locks
nothing else matters but the overhead
for crypto I try to improve in several
ways but everything comes down to two -
Krypto that's why I try to focus a
little bit more on that stuff did a
couple of
hag's trying to make web crypto worth a
try it also some webassembly stuff kind
of in the middle in the middle of things
but yeah that's it what I have done the
previous week this week I'll try to all
do all the retrospective stuff on
planning and also at least make the web
crypto work with a local Lehman I'm
having a couple of issues with that and
also I will look into one issue that
someone posted on Jess ipfs epi not
being able to end all kind of small file
I will look into that and that's about
it I think I promised some demos for
this week I'll try to share my screen
now ok
can you guys see ok so this is a simple
interface I made to do my testing you
can basically basically tell the peer
you want to connect tell the the repo
name so I can change between ripples
because I need to test different stuff
and test it when I reach the limits and
whatnot so it's a simple interface so I
can choose fast between different
options one of the things it's it's the
portable stuff should be
oh it was running sorry okay so this one
not much to see just like some broth
it's faster I can run it with different
blocks this is actually getting at least
one walk and running the benchmark with
the two implementations so I can run
with all these these files and it will
be consistent at being like a tree at
least 3x times faster the App Store
second will vary a lot between the
blocks but it's normal and it's
basically the PDF it's just faster one
of the things they do is they compile a
lot of time the the plot above - Jas
class I think we also do that in some of
the the repos that we use protobufs but
even though I think we don't do this in
the in UNIX ipfs it will still be faster
even if we add at least that so this
will probably a good addition to an
exact TFS and the other demo I'd like to
show you we just get the task manager
shows one of these files it will start
the download
you can see that it knows the the size
of the the file ahead of time and it it
shows it tells the browser the correct
size and then we can see that okay so
the memory footprint stays really stable
and this will take a long time because
it's getting the blocks but at least
it's stable and the memory stays really
really stable also so that's let's go I
think I'm not gonna bother you guys we
being here until we the twenty nine
minutes but you get the point
so let's and if I in the process so I
think that's it anyone has any questions
yeah questions go through it so just
trying to make sure I understand it is
that mostly about switching from protons
to PB effers there are a whole bunch of
other stuff in there too that's also
contributing to the improvement it's
like two different things I've been
testing a lot of stuff regarding this
OPR some of it it's the data stores
implementation another one is the using
this new lab it's not new but it's a
different library for and Link auto
works and the other one it's the
download thing because you know the
demos that we have we we we couldn't
handle big files when we get the blocks
and assemble everything into one buffer
and then we just throw it to the user in
with one big blob
if it's like Andrew bites it
doesn't work right so it's a couple of
different people different things this
one about the Downloads it's just about
streaming it everything and using a
serviceworker to catch the request and
build up a stream and respond through
the service word to the to the main
thread and the download is it's in
streaming mode basically is there any
changes to be worried about or concerned
about in terms of like how malformed
data is handled between the old protobuf
tool and the new library you're using
can you beat that please are there any
changes to how malformed data is handled
like have you been testing that between
the two protobuf libraries yeah I mean I
think with both implementations and I
didn't found any any any strange stuff
and it's it's it's really I can even
show you again it's kind of trivial it's
the yeah it's the right one yeah
basically if you if you know the
unmarshal functioning in unix i fs it's
basically the same stuff we just need to
rub all the instance together and it
basically does the same thing it uses
the same proto file but instead i I
create it
timed the schema class this auto
generates auto generated by the the BBF
package so it's basically the same thing
and I've been testing with the two
implementations and everything works I
constantly check if I mostly work with
the videos because it's the easiest way
it like to check if the final assemble
file works and it it's been working so I
didn't turn in any any issues I guess I
guess what I mean or what I was trying
to ask is since we're using a different
library with different tools do the
errors and things you get back in the
case of malformed or bad data change at
all because that's part of the public
interface that users ultimately see if
anybody's paying attention to a
particular type of error rather than
just I got an error does that change or
do we have anything more specific or
better to say about errors now than we
used to
oh I didn't understood yet no it's it's
the same it's all this thing cool
anything else
we go I think we should move on because
we wanna go over time but if you have
any more questions with you guys and
maybe you can get in touch with him
afterwards sure we move on
Diego what's up guys last week I've been
continued with my yard of the errors
I've never smoked both requests I bring
some error messages and I see with the
vid and he said to open a big issue -
like a road map that there's everything
that is related to diamond gracious and
error handling so we have like a table
with multiple issues and we can track
them if it's possible to reproduce the
errors manually or if you have as well
flipping those those errors and stuff
like that please go check it out and I
also got with Pasco can you work to to
create a ripple that gathers all the
elephant in the ipfs hope that many
should you please give me feedback this
week I'll continue with this OPI and
I'll have to to check the web UI in
Pakistan India the current state to
proportion Walker's
because next part I'll be working just a
quick question and the error codes how
how you plan planning to to deal with
those and how would they how do they do
do you have a plan for like how they get
see realized over over like the HTTP API
no no not really
I was thinking about
creating extending the errors breaking
classes and extending the arrow place
but I haven't thought about how to
serialize I had to dig and see how I'm
going to do that
I'm proposing to create that repo I'm
waiting for feedback he's going to move
that way or not yeah I think if we've
error classes it's difficult to
re-inflate them after they get
serialized I guess even though you don't
know what class or where it came from
but error codes possibly worth pursuing
okay let's do that okay you anyone
anyone got any other questions for you
okay
last week I were mainly working on
Ibanez I created a PR GSI breakfast with
an initial working implementation of it
there are some not required parameters
left and some more stuff but it works
this way and I'm going to do some
feedback before keeping it further I've
also created the new package called GSI
Venice which is kind of a disgusting
name right now because it's called oh I
P&S that package the same packaging go
but we don't know that it's the best
name or not so I'm discussing it with
you the riddance there Walden in order
to figure it out then I've merged two
peers for CTO and I'm blocked in that I
can as modules in naming definition and
for this week I need to add a nano
seconds precision to the
- records because actually go I been s
uses it but yes the native data does not
have nanoseconds so I'm trying to figure
out where it's the best way to do that
I've checked some miracles and big
number and I'm thinking about where is
the best way I will try to get PR
tomorrow I guess then I need to finish
some tests in the ipfs in Jessup FS for
the my IP and s PR and also work in the
oke are for Flickr to appear for the
next court and it's basically dense oh
and so just one more thing I've wrote
some notes for in creating the I can
expect I will also try to create a PR
with that's this week so Alan I think
yeah just for me and maybe anyone else
here a little bit when you say okay
networking what does what does that mean
for J's ipfs what can it what will it be
able to do that it wasn't able to do
before
okay so basically when you have a
penance working locally you can have
publish and resolve I penance names
locally to that note there is there is
no routing and if you connect a new peer
it will not work the next step after
having the I penis working locally and
which was like my second we a cure for a
penis is to add the DHT okay and so when
you say so like we're talking about
resolving peer IDs to content ideas
where correct we're not like DNS no no
okay that is very cool any questions for
best man
no you are free to go
Jacob so I've added interrupt tests last
week for the private network that found
some issues both with order of go
dialing first or Jas tiling first so I
fixed some issues with that the only
outstanding item I have is when there
are bad network connections the J's poll
reader doesn't handle over reading very
well so if you have on your if your
stream gets corrupted or in the instance
of a bad private network if that data is
encrypted and it tries to figure out how
many bytes is in the stream with the bar
int it can't figure that out and then
when it goes to pull in it's okay I'm
gonna pull in 120 bytes but there's only
five left it will sit there and wait 60
seconds so in an effort to not have 60
second test timeout
I'm working on a fix for a poll reader
so that will just hang up into an error
when it should instead of just soccer
typing out so I think I have that mostly
working I just need to do some some
final tests on that I demoed the private
network at the IP all hands so if you
want to see any of that it's basically
just Wireshark in action but that's
there and then this week I'll fix the
the poll reader stuff finish submitting
all the PRS for private networking and
then work on some q3 okay our stuff as
well as try to finish up the rest of the
Lib p2b config updates with David
questions
wasn't Thank You Jacob the just for
anyone else is watching the hands are
also uploaded to YouTube so you should
be able to watch Jacobs demo on there
Alex you're up again please
hi so last week I was trying to get M
p.m. on ipfs working so this is a
project that looks like David was
working on a couple years ago and hasn't
really seen any update since then which
is interesting because ipfs has moved on
quite a lot since then so nothing really
works in that project at all
I started by just trying to use against
the running demon and got loads of
errors I thought oh no I know if there
are tests run the tests and there's any
one test that actually tests the
implementation the rest of lots of
stubbing and you know that test doesn't
work either so I was hoping there's
going to be a simple case of just
switching between go and J s
implementations at the demon but the
project itself needs coil or work to get
it working again first so I was trying
to do some of that interestingly when it
when it first spins out it tries to
contact a node that doesn't exist
anymore and download a IP NS thing there
is a mapping of all NPM nodes too so all
NPM modules two content hashes and that
doesn't exist either and I'm not sure
how you recreate that there doesn't seem
to be anything in the rebate about how
you would generate and publish that but
it's been done so somebody must know so
I was going to try and get a bid David's
time so you can take me through how it
works so that has been an interesting an
interesting week yeah so I'm gonna try
to finish that this week and hopefully
if I can get some time to look at em FS
that would be really nice knows me any
questions
cool
okay have you talked with Victor about
it because like in January he also did
some NPM things right and no yeah no boy
will cuz yeah because he mentioned it
you know when we were in Lisbon as well
yeah yeah get up with him because I
don't have a clue what he was working I
just saw him doing something alright
question why are you looking at this now
just curiously because David wanted it
to be kind of proof that the JavaScript
and go implementations of NFS were
comparable so because it uses lots of em
FS it seemed cool nice okay and yeah
question okay Rob you're up
how's it going not a whole lot to report
I'm you know it's been I've been
spending the last couple weeks
pushing on people to try and redefine
some of the language around IPL DS so
it's much more clear and to do things
like comment on a lot of pull requests
and push towards having better in code
documentation in Godot generation for
the ghost stuff add diagrams to the
various builders and things like that
so there's not a lot of like specific
concrete things for me for not having
done but the two things I am working on
madly in the next two days are
finalizing some some session proposals
and things for Docs related stuff at the
summit and trying to come back round to
that Doc's website and tear apart the
front end code and rebuild it so that
it's a little slightly better looking
but mostly so that it doesn't turn the
fans up to a thousand percent on your
computer when you load the site for more
than ten minutes I'm not even sure what
it's doing that like does that but I'm
sure it's related to the like crazy
brokenness of the existing old front-end
code that's there and I just
know that I'm gonna be out when's this
coming Wednesday through the next
Wednesday I might be around but I will
be in a cabin in Maine with with minimal
internet connectivity
you
cool thanks Rob any any questions for
okay so the last of our scheduled
updates is car OD yeah I on my existing
giant suite of pull requests for the bit
swap implementations finally got merged
so that's in my done column
I'm currently locked on a little pull
request for pure ID to change what to
print returns to match to go
implementation and the reason that's a
blocker is on my next I'm implementing
bit swap ledger for peer which locally
for me is all but done them right in the
CLI test but I'm gonna go back and once
this to print has merged update IPF bed
swap to better reflect how it should
work and it'll clean up all the code
I've currently got there because it's
doing some weird reshuffling just to get
that to print working and so that's on
my next is two bits on Pledger stuff and
then q theokay RS which I expect is
gonna be similar to q2 which is this
interface parity between go and J s ipfs
cool I just had interface parody not
parenting but yeah impurity bits what
ledger and I've never heard of that
before what is can you explain maybe
what that is it's the ledger for the
peer shows you your sent received your
score which is you know how well it's
doing versus of receive and the number
of either bytes or packets exchanged
it's it's the ledger for that peer that
shows you just the stats of the bit swap
stats for that peer for you
cool okay any other question in which
case we've completed the schedules
updates there is a final agenda item
that I just wanted to ask if I know I
can see we've got a micro Rodgers here I
just wondered if he was just hovering or
yeah hopefully next week I'll have some
more stuff to say I'm right in the
middle of a lot of stuff that I need to
sort of put together into text and then
maybe present something on it okay cool
so the final thing I've been asked by
David dais to mention that it's the end
of the quarter you should have all
received an email already and it's time
it's time to do the retrospective
there's a link on the email to a
document where you each got to fill in a
slot for it but I don't have access to
it and I've never seen it before so I
don't know but presumably that's where
you typed your words so how you fought
it will win and I'm sure it went
swimmingly for everyone but do write
what you feel in there so then there is
also the second thing if you can please
update your final score in the
spreadsheet for your four quarter - okay
ours that should take you know a long
hey well hopefully won't take you very
long anyway and then the final third and
final thing is to maybe have a think
about what you would like to do what you
feel david says think very deeply so we
should all do that about what your goals
for the next quarter are and then add
them as infamy like as I guess a comment
on the rest on the existing progress
that's there yeah and then I think
unless anyone has any other questions or
agenda items or I didn't go down to the
one but yeah no there's nothing else
added anything does anyone have anything
else any other business are we done
okay silence is compliance with leaving
the cool now so let's do that it's been
very nice to see all your faces again
hooray and go team until next time happy
IPF essing guys the teams go team which
is team oh yeah Jess team go